Restructure user guide into top-level guides, reference and explanation parts (#9379)
haskell/cabal: doc/how-to-package-haskell-code.rst

How to package Haskell code
===========================

.. TIP::
    If this is your first time using `cabal` you should check out the :doc:`Getting Started guide <getting-started>`.

> Starting from scratch, we're going to walk you through creating a simple

Reviewer: This sounds like it _is_ the Getting Started guide.

Reviewer: On second thought, given @ffaf1's comment on a deleted line, this whole thing is just relocated and this confusion was already there. We should probably still figure out what we want.

Author: Yeah, the idea is that the getting started is a heavily condensed version of the more detailed package guide.

.. _init quickstart:

Using ``cabal init``
--------------------

The ``cabal init`` command creates the necessary files for a Cabal package,
it has both an ``--interactive`` (default) and ``--non-interactive``
mode. The interactive mode will walk you through many of the package
options and metadata, the non-interactive mode will simply pick reasonable
defaults which is sufficient if you're just trying something out.

.. highlight:: console

::

    $ cabal init --non-interactive
    # You can also use -n which is the short version of --non-interactive

If you want, you can also try out the interactive mode, for now chose
"Executable" when asked what type of package you want to build.

.. highlight:: console

::

    $ cabal init
    ...
    What does the package build:
       1) Executable
       2) Library
       3) Library and Executable
       4) Test suite
    Your choice?

One of the important questions is whether the package contains a library
and/or an executable. Libraries are collections of Haskell modules that
can be re-used by other Haskell libraries and programs, while executables
are standalone programs. Test suites can both depend on a library or be

> standalonely generated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
standalone.
```

> For the moment these are the only choices. For more complex packages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the moment, these are the only choices. For more complex packages
```

> (e.g. a library and multiple executables) the ``.cabal``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(e.g. a library and multiple executables), the ``.cabal``
```

file can be edited afterwards.

After you make your selection (executable; library; library

> and executable; or: test suite) cabal asks us a number of questions starting with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and executable; or: test suite), cabal asks you a number of questions starting with
```

> which version of the cabal specification to use, our package's name

Reviewer: ```suggestion
which version of the cabal specification to use, your package's name
```
Alternately change "after you make your selection" above; these should match instead of suddenly switching from second to first person.

(for example, "proglet"), and our package's version.

::

    Generating CHANGELOG.md...
    Generating Main.hs...
    Generating proglet.cabal...

Use the ``ls`` command to see the created files:

::

   $ ls
   CHANGELOG.md  Main.hs  proglet.cabal

Running the program
-------------------

> Now that we have our Haskell code and the extra files that Cabal needs we

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that we have our Haskell code and the extra files that Cabal needs, we
```

can build and run our application.

::

   $ cabal build
   Resolving dependencies...
   ...
   Linking /path/to/proglet ...

   $ cabal run proglet
   ...
   Hello, Haskell!

> Since we have an executable we can use ``cabal run proglet`` which will build

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since we have an executable, we can use ``cabal run proglet`` which will build
```

our executable (and re-build it if we've made any changes) and then run the
binary. The ``cabal run`` command works for any ``component-name`` (tests for
example), not just the main executable.

About the Cabal package structure
---------------------------------

It is assumed that all the files that make up a package live under a common
root directory (apart from external dependencies). This simple example has
all the package files in one directory, but most packages use one or more
subdirectories.

Cabal needs one extra file in the package's root directory:

-  ``proglet.cabal``: contains package metadata and build information.

Editing the .cabal file
-----------------------

.. highlight:: cabal

Load up the ``.cabal`` file in a text editor. The first part of the

> ``.cabal`` file has the package metadata and towards the end of the file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``.cabal`` file has the package metadata, and towards the end of the file
```
You may alos prefer to say "followed by" instead of "towards the end of the file".

of the package too, but this is not required and the name is given
explicitly.

Modules included in the package
-------------------------------

For an executable, ``cabal init`` creates the ``Main.hs`` file which
contains your program's ``Main`` module. It will also fill in the
:pkg-field:`executable:main-is` field with the file name of your program's
``Main`` module, including the ``.hs`` (or ``.lhs``) extension. Other
modules included in the executable should be listed in the
:pkg-field:`other-modules` field.

For a library, ``cabal init`` looks in the project directory for files
that look like Haskell modules and adds all the modules to the
:pkg-field:`library:exposed-modules` field. For modules that do not form part
of your package's public interface, you can move those modules to the
:pkg-field:`other-modules` field. Either way, all modules in the library need
to be listed.

Modules imported from other packages
------------------------------------

While your library or executable may include a number of modules, it
almost certainly also imports a number of external modules from the
standard libraries or other pre-packaged libraries. (These other

> libraries are of course just Cabal packages that contain a library.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
libraries are of course just Cabal packages that contain one or more libraries.)
```

You have to list all of the library packages that your library or
executable imports modules from. Or to put it another way: you have to
list all the other packages that your package depends on.

For example, suppose the example ``Proglet`` module imports the module
``Data.Map``. The ``Data.Map`` module comes from the ``containers``
package, so we must list it:

::

    library
      exposed-modules:     Proglet
      other-modules:
      build-depends:       containers, base >=4.11 && <4.12

In addition, almost every package also depends on the ``base`` library
package because it exports the standard ``Prelude`` module plus other
basic modules like ``Data.List``.

You will notice that we have listed ``base >=4.11 && <4.12``. This gives a
constraint on the version of the base package that our package will work
with. The most common kinds of constraints are:

-  ``pkgname >=n``
-  ``pkgname ^>=n`` (since Cabal 2.0)
-  ``pkgname >=n && <m``

> -  ``pkgname ==n.*`` (since Cabal 1.6)

Reviewer: Do we care about the "since" here?

Author: Not, sure, but i like to add more explicit examples in a later PR. Let's keep it for now as is.

Reviewer 2: If it's not the reference part of the manual, things like `since Cabal 1.6` are better omitted. Of course, if you feel like leaving it as a future work, that's fine.

Author: Removed.
